go out very lucky to have the pinnacle
of aesthetics and performance combined
we have world champions in
[Laughter]
[Music]
hey guys I'm Sebastian I otherwise known
as the Australian strength coach today
we're at base gym and we've got two
ladies joining us today that are at the
pinnacle of their chosen sports we have
a former world champion fitness model
and Walt champion bikini model Haddie
boydle and Lauren Simpson I'm on my
channel Patti is a very familiar face
but I've never had the pleasure of
working with Lauren this is actually the
very first sight I do know Lauren but
it's a very first time that I've had the
pleasure of training with her in the
same room so I'm very excited for that
but what I want to do is I'm not going
to actually today I'm going to work with
these girls and they've come in for
heavy squat and deadlift session you
know of course I'm there to help along
the way but what I'd love to show you
guys is these girls main focus is
aesthetics so they get on stage and
they're judged on their appearance yet
they are both known for being incredibly
strong and I'm going to go as far as to
say these girls are the strongest in
their Federation in their sport
even though unfortunately they're not
judged on their strength but if they
were you'd be first in fitness you
because the bikinis so they're both
incredibly strong and they're both very
well known for that and that's something
that I love I love that people can use
strength focus training to achieve
aesthetics goals but what we're going to
do is hear from their mouths so take it
away hey hey guys I'm daddy boydle 2016
WBFF world champion I am not just an
athlete I'm also a coach so I have this
boss little project and I'm lucky enough
to work with five amazing pro athletes
and a really large number of amazing
women from all over the world
I started training when I was 17 trade
no actually I'm gonna take that back I
said it exercise
when I was 17 weight training but I
didn't start really strength Tracy
training till 2014 when I met you I only
interrupt you this one a little bit of
perspective and I can't question shots
or ask a lady especially but how are
they ok so we're approaching 15 years
you said exercise yeah I mean when I
first started training I didn't train to
a plan so that essentially just exercise
right and I God I look back now and I
think what an animal I would have been
if I'd started training to a plan much
earlier it's an interesting thing but I
think we've all been there something
that I say about myself is I love the
mistakes that I've made as cliche as it
is we learn from our mistakes and it's
hard to say if you could get better than
no one in the world you've achieved that
so maybe it's been a good thing yeah I
guess I like to consider myself a bit of
an all-rounder I can kind of do
everything quite well um I can get fit
when I need to be fed I can get strong
on any be strong and get lean a lot
bodybuilding I really just love training
and outperforming myself whatever that
looks like on paper and really love
mindset work as well so very bigger than
self development and I actually feel
that training really carries over to
internal self-development because you
need to learn to when to challenge
yourself and and also when to pull back
so yeah I I love training
I love strength training I really found
a really big change in my overall
overall abeam I
anorexia so it was just about exercise
for a really long time
and then you know the strength training
really showed me hey what it what am I
actually able to achieve with my body if
I really start to get in tune with with
who I am at the core and outperforming
myself so every week just being that
number just by two and a half five kilos
and from there it started to shift away
from what I looks like which was my
absolute main focus for a very long time
and it was quite damaging fine and in a
sport which is all about aesthetics and
carrying over to strength training which
is all about how the hell do I up before
myself where do I have to go mentally to
do that and also physically and that
really did open up a whole new world for
me and I was able to carry that into
actually bodybuilding an aesthetic so my
sport sport is competing and finished in
bodybuilding shows the categories I'm
like your greatest fitness but behind
that my love of training is the base of
it is actually strength training because
not only do I use that in my compound
there's squat deadly kick for us but
actually carry that over to my
bodybuilding style of training in order
to keep changing my body so today we're
gonna get some heavy lifts today out of
you hopefully I mean you've just come
back from a competition how many weeks
ago was that five weeks ago and you
didn't do much so both of you both
competed at the same show not done much
heavy lifting I'm not sure about you I
changed my training so last year
actually did a pelvic income eight weeks
that's a lot of my prep lead-up to dough
BFF last year was strength training this
alumni yes that was awesome this year I
cut it out a little bit just because I
wanted to refine and more bikini body
shapes that obviously I get very jacked
directors
best thing for to do a paraffin
concentrate before likely you're going
to be judged on your appearance yes I
think alone is the goal that was a bit
harder to incorporate so much strength
focus that they can build muscle quite
quickly sure before you continue let's
once you to introduce yourself now to
our audience we can get really carried
away and talk about this topic forever
but I'll tell us who you are
Tallulah hey guys I'm Lauren Simpson I
am 2018 WAFF bikini a world champion I
am also not all Lauren Simpson fitness
that is an online coaching business and
I train thousands and thousands of girls
all around the world to be the best that
they can be now I have been into sports
pretty much my whole life and it was
only in around 2015 did I get pretty
serious in the gym I do have a
background with like an unhealthy
relationship with food and training I
was the typical cardio bunny over
training under eating did all the pomp
classes and everything and it really
impacted my health because I just wasn't
eating enough so for me getting in the
gym really helped with my
self-confidence and like honey I guess
it's all about personal development and
feeling empowered in the gym now I am a
huge advocate and I always have been on
social media of girls lifting weights
and getting strong and not obviously not
just for aesthetic reasons but because
of that internal belief in yourself and
what you can achieve if you really set
your mind to it and yeah it's super
empowering and again that's like
something that we instill in all of our
clients as well that the focus is on
weight training because there's so much
more to it and yeah I've competed in two
powerlifting competitions previously and
one last year and one a couple of years
ago which I absolutely loved I get super
nervous that we're squatting in front of
a roomful of people we're gonna see
yes I'm looking forward to getting back
into some strength training again I
absolutely love the feeling of being
strong there's honestly nothing like it
when you lift away that you never felt
possible in your life there's nothing
more like oh my god yeah I freaking did
it sorry I've got a question for the
audience if you don't mind me asking
what were your numbers for the
[Music]
aesthetics athletes for females
especially is the proportions and it's
kind of like a lower body dominant
proportions so in my experience working
with women at the highest level it's
more focused on the old body strength
than up the body not that we don't focus
on upper body strength so I don't think
it's a big deal to say that the
benchpress kind of lag compared to your
other other movements because you still
have an underlying aesthetics focus so I
think just out of interest I think it's
really important for everyone who's
watching to know what your benchpress
numbers are and not be ashamed it's all
good yeah I think my best benchpress is
50 kilos my best squat that I've done is
150 kilos big difference yeah and my
deadlift
is 155 kilos that's some of the late
numbers and to say yeah I don't think
anyone in your category would go
anywhere near that maybe in the bench
but we don't care about the bench no one
cares about the bench and I'll tell you
that I get the least likes on my
Instagram channel because no one cares
Kevin unless it's Kevin but then but
yeah I think that's a really great thing
just to understand your numbers you know
how strong you can actually be what body
weight was that
I was around 60 kilos so both are the
same size this is another interesting
thing you're both the same size as each
other both live the same numbers but
quite different physiques and actually
different different categories yeah so
that's something that's a huge interest
just to me you know we say when you see
them up on stage there's you know I
won't say there's nothing to think about
it because some people like that big
look but at the same time you guys get
very small and tiny up on stage and it's
hard to believe that you're lifting the
numbers that you do so I guess it's
going to be really cool tonight to show
our audience but it's possible little
chicks can and should lips
[Music]
most of my peepees are done dieting a
lot of my pee pee ever been done dieting
so to the back end we are the last three
or four weeks maybe your strength might
the plateau decrease but like most of
the way through I always hit personal
bests in in a dining phase and in a prep
if you're dying down you can't hit big
numbers and a lot of the times it's like
a psychological thing you're talking
yourself yeah talking yourself out of it
if you're going to the gym and just
think yeah I'm gonna get this then it's
all yeah mindset is a huge thing I find
when it comes to lifting big time um now
it's only fair that you tell us your
numbers as well Laurens given hers squat
squat is 145 which I've done so many
times the 150 is the death of me and I
and then rich Prince happens put a good
man I've got a good bank because there's
nothing here but muscle ladies I'm
certain you've done 90 it's possible
you've done 95 again it's not like so
we've never actually put it down on
paper but I know it's at least 90
kilograms which for a chick oh yeah
she's a great presser comes down to
technique but it also comes down to
strength we never miss coming five
months six yeah and and she just knows
how to do it and I believe you've got a
gymnastics background as well which
involves incredible upper-body strength
which I just think is this mostly my
whole life like I was a must be five
year old I was an elite gymnast how old
were you when you started gymnastics out
when I was four and the time I was 12 I
was doing 32 hours a week of training so
more training than what I do now insane
and it just I can punch volume I can do
so much training and I and I I feel like
the only way I can do that's because for
10 years or nine years of my life I was
doing that volume and that before and
after school six days a week it you know
it's just that's just what I kind of
grew up with so it's you know I'll give
it to you you're a volume machine and
you come in and it's like I'll set a
program for her it's like five by five
and then she'll do the first five sets
then she'll like she'll say to me can I
do five more sets and it's like this is
you know leading up to competition when
as she says she's supposed to be dieting
she's supposed to be lower body weight
and definitely lower body fat percentage
actually still punching out the work so
she's definitely a workhorse um one more
question how big is your doing
you don't want it 150 for a double that
was conventional yeah you started doing
super that it was your that was
conventional today I think it's just
like my hips on the way we might give it
a go today maybe we can get somewhere
but I think that you're still not on
your potential to do this because we
don't really do a lot of diligence sumo
actually getting back into it I love
that it's you know I don't like to give
my opinion on these ladies especially
I've never coached Lauren she's not an
athlete of mine she's world class and
she's got a different method to what I
have but that's a belief of mine is that
deadlifting as amazing of an exercise as
it is it does thicken you in places that
may not be your goal up on stage it's my
favorite upper back builder the best
deadlift is in the worlds have thick
cause to protect their spines because
that's what they're loading and and
that's why I'm very I love the exercise
and I will prescribe it to chicks out
there but once you get to a certain
level like these chicks are doing 150
kilo plus conventional deadlifts you're
going to build muscle they say and
that's what we're supposed to promote is
that women can't build muscle and don't
be scared etc yes you can if you know
how to train your dog properly you can
build muscle but it's not a bad thing
either muscle and then going and then
reassessing not being like oh I don't
wanna get that muscle because then you
actually are trying to get that muscle
but you're doing all these other things
like you want to get there the most
efficient way possible and like the
other thing is a it's phenomenal
exercise is an amazing skill to work on
so again having goals that are outside
physical performance it makes their
journey a lot more enjoyable and I guess
it all carries over but it's and it's a
beautiful exercise like when you get it
it feels so good I agree and that's the
whole thing of subjectivity versus
objectivity up on stage it's very
subjective you're judged based on some
opinion whereas in the gym you can't go
your darling we measure it objectively
with how many kilograms go on the bar
and it's a great way for your training
morale to just see the kilograms adding
up week after week which is why I'm
heavily biased towards strength training
but it's great to have like-minded women
whose goals are aesthetic and they're
using strength to achieve that I said it
goals so I'm really excited to have you
guys thank you so much for coming let's
go that's what's known as well this is
Lauren's first time in Beijing yeah
let's do it
[Music]
you